Hello and welcome in this lecture we're gonna be putting in a new persistent game object our saving
system with two scripts on it the saving system script and the saving wrapper.
This is in order to get the overarching architecture of our saving system in place so that we can test
things.
Let's dive in and see how it's done.
So whenever I start designing a fairly complicated system like we're going to have here with the saving
system I often like to start from the outside in meaning taking the what's the user experience going
to be.
So how is the user going to interact with the saving and loading system.
And that gives me a starting point for building down into the architecture of actually doing the saving
and loading.
Now I'm not going to go all the way to creating lots and lots of UI but we can at least set up some
simple key bindings so that when you're in the game we can hit s to save and hit L to load or reload
the safe as simple as that.
And that will give us something at least to test our saving and loading system against.
So it's quite a good place to start.
I'm gonna start off by creating a couple of classes and for that we need a new namespace.
So I'm going to create a folder under scripts called Saving and under that folder I'm going to create
two separate classes in here.
The first one is going to be the saving or the say saving system dot c s and the second one is going
to be the saving wrapper.
And the reason for this is I want to put all the core stuff in the saving system and then all the stuff
that's related to how our game handles saving in the saving wrapper.
So things like save and load to a particular file are gonna go in the saving system.
However save and load to based on a s and an L key binding that's going to go in the saving wrapper.
So we're going to create these classes now and in fact that may challenge for you if you like kids to
create a saving system.
And I'm going to put that in the namespace RPG dot saving which is a new namespace.
So it went to complete automatically for me and then I'm gonna do a mono behavior for the wrapper as
well and I'm going to wrap it in the namespace of saving which is should now RPG dot saving.
Give me the hints for okeydoke and then we want to define what it is to be a saving system so I'm going
to just go ahead and create a public API for our saving system and it's going to be public void save
what we're going to save too well I'm going to take in a string that names the save file so this is
just going to be like anything that RET uniquely references this particular save file and then I'm going
to print out that we're saving to this file to the save file and then we just can copy that because
the other method in our saving system is going to be a load which loads from a particular site file
and the message should be loading from Save File OK so for now we're just gonna leave these print statements
in here.
This is what I mean by making the shell of our saving system.
And then we're going to drive them from within the saving wrapper and in fact if you want to you can
set this up yourself.
Basically what we want to do is the following.
We want to have something like a serialize.
No not serialized feel just a concept string which is going to be the default save file.
And this is why I want this in the wrapper.
Because if you are doing a different project you might choose to use a different save file every save
or you might want to use different slots.
At the moment we're just gonna be using one single save file but that might change with your specific
and particular requirements.
So the default so far I'm just going to call save as simple as that and then we are going to need to
have an update method to check for our key presses and we can then get the component of type saving
system and we can call on that the something like save with a default save file but you don't want to
do this every update obviously you want to do this when you've got a key down.
So that's my little mini challenge for you is to set up these key down events and I'm going to go ahead.
So if input don't get key down and then we're going to use the key code S at the moment it's just rough
and ready.
This is not what we're going to go for in our end game.
It's just to test out our system and to have that test available to us and then we're going to do the
input get key down El for load and we're going to do the same get component instead of save.
We are going to call load.
So that's created our wrapper for the saving system.
And what I would like you to do is to put it into action in our scene so the challenge is to create
the game object for your saving system.
So it should be persistent should exist between levels prefab it and you should be checking that your
logs are coming out as you'd expect from the two classes which has created so pause the video and have
a go OK.
Welcome back.
This should be a fairly simple challenge I hope you didn't struggle with it if you did struggle with
it well just watch along.
And we will sort it out.
So the thing is we've got our persistence objects prefab which is under core persistent objects and
I'll grab that persistent object prefab and open it up create a new empty child which I am going to
call the save in system just like that class we had.
And I'm going to add two components the saving system itself and then the saving system wrapper which
gives us the default class the default place to save.
And the key bindings then I'm going to prefab our saving system as I said and it's already in the persistent
objects prefab so it should get loaded when we start I hit play and I hit s with the console open I've
got saving to save and l was loading from Save.
Perfect.
So this that basic infrastructure around saving which we are going to fill out to actually writing stuff
to a save file and loading that scene state so to do that we're going to need to know about where we
can save files in unity and we're going to do that via file manipulation and we'll learn all about file
manipulation in the next lecture.